Riksdagsdebatter.se – a digital tool for historians to explore Swedish parliamentary speeches since 1867

Johan Jarlbrink (Umeå University), Fredrik Mohammadi Norén (Malmö University), Roger Mähler (Umeå University), Kajsa Palm (Umeå University) & Rebecka Weegar (Umeå University)


Abstract:
Parliamentary debates have long served as an important historical source for studying the past. In this presentation, we introduce Riksdagsdebatter.se, a freely accessible and user-friendly interface that enables historians to explore and analyse Swedish parliamentary speeches from 1867 to the present, using both qualitative and quantitative approaches. This online resource builds on the RJ-funded research infrastructure project SWERIK, which has created a database of all Swedish members of parliament (MPs), annotated the debate records, and linked individual speeches to their respective speakers. Altogether, this linked speech corpus consists of some 6,000 MPs, more than one million speeches, which roughly comprise 450 million words. 
Riksdagsdebatter.se offers four primary tools that bridge close and distant reading: (1) word trends, which visualize word frequencies over time; (2) keyword in context (KWIC), which displays a flexible word window around search terms; (3) n-gram analysis, which identifies common multi-word sequences and their immediate contexts; and (4) a sub-corpus tool, which allows users to customized subsets of the speech data based on curated metadata for year, chamber, party affiliation, gender, and individual MPs. To support source-critical scrutiny, each annotated speech can be cross-checked with its digitized page image from the official debate record, and each known speaker has a link to the MP’s Wikidata entry (which constitute the basis of the SWERIK MP database). In this way, Riksdagsdebatter.se makes it possible for historians – without programming skills – to search, filter, and analyse large-scale datasets of Swedish parliamentary speeches. The interface thus lowers the barrier for scholars working with this source material and creates new opportunities for interdisciplinary studies in, for instance, history, political science, and gender studies.
The interface is developed by Humlab, the digital humanities hub at Umeå University, and builds on benchmark platforms such as hansard.parliament.uk (British parliament), parlamenttisampo.fi (Finnish Riksdag), and opendiscourse.de (German Bundestag). Moreover, Riksdagsdebatter.se is grounded in open science principles, with its code openly available on GitHub (github.com/humlab-swedeb). A first official version (1.0) of Riksdagsdebatter.se was released during the summer of 2025.

Keywords:
Parliamentary debates, Sweden, text analysis tools, user interface, SWERIK 
